syllabus.md, before:

# DM-GY 9103 Mobile Apps

![NYU](http://ws2.polishedsolid.com/de/nyu_soe_logo.png)
#### Integrated Digital Media • Technology, Culture & Society Department



    Chris Ricca, chris.ricca@nyu.edu • Spring 2015 • Wednesdays 6:30-9:20PM • 2MTC MAGNET 817 • 3 credit hrs
    Office hours by appointment • Office: 2MTC MAGNET 875
   

### Course Pre-requisites
Students should have experience with a programming language beyond a basic level.

### Course Description
This course covers the technical and design fundamentals of building native mobile apps for iOS (iPod, iPhone or iPad) using the Objective-C programming language and tools such as git, XCode, and Interface Builder.

### Course Objectives
At a graduate level, students will:

* prototype an idea for an app to determine its value, usability, and feasibility
* write and read the Objective-C programming language
* build a native iOS app using UIKit and appropriate architectural patterns
* use Auto Layout to make interfaces that adapt to different device screen sizes
* read iOS documentation to discover and use more advanced features of the framework

### Program Learning Objectives
At a graduate level, students will:

* develop conceptual thinking skills to generate ideas and content in order to solve problems or create opportunities.
* develop technical skills to realize their ideas.
* develop critical thinking skills that will allow them to analyze and position their work within cultural, historic, aesthetic, economic, and technological contexts.
gain knowledge of professional practices and organizations by developing their verbal, visual, and written communication for documentation and presentation, exhibition and promotion, networking, and career preparation.
* develop collaboration skills to actively and effectively work in a team or group.

### Course Structure 
Students in this course will engage in two main tracks of study: learning technical skills via weekly exercises, and a prototype driven app development project.

To learn the technical skills required to make an iOS app, students will be following the iOS textbook from The Big Nerd Ranch. Students will read and code along with 2 chapters / week as well as watch videos to help support the material. Class time will be reserved for getting answers to questions brought up in the readings, as well as completing select exercises from the book with access to help from fellow students and the instructor.

The app development project will start with a series of idea generation exercises, prototypes, critiques, and in class workshops. In general, students will be encouraged to validate their ideas in a lightweight way before committing to building them in code for the final project. During the last half of the course, students will be working in teams of two to fully develop their apps in code.

### Readings 

The **required** text for the course is:

```
Keur, Christian, Aaron Hillegass, and Joe Conway.
iOS Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide. 4th ed.
Atlanta, GA: Big Nerd Ranch, 2014.
```

Available on [amazon](http://www.amazon.com/iOS-Programming-Ranch-Guide-Guides-ebook/dp/B00IG8TGZ8/) (the kindle version on the OSX kindle app works well) and a copy is also at Dibner on course reserve

---

An **optional** text is:

```
Hillegass, Aaron.
Objective-C Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide.
Atlanta, GA: Big Nerd Ranch, 2011.
```

Available on [amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Objective-C-Programming-Ranch-Guide-Guides-ebook/dp/B00GSRITM0/) if you choose to use it, and a copy is also at Dibner on course reserve

---
Useful resources:

* [https://developer.apple.com](https://developer.apple.com)
* [http://www.objc.io](http://www.objc.io)
* [http://asciiwwdc.com](http://asciiwwdc.com)
* [http://ios.devtools.me](http://ios.devtools.me)
* [http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~blynn/gitmagic/index.html](http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~blynn/gitmagic/index.html)


### Course requirements 
Students will be expected to complete the reading and the complete the accompanying coding examples (and push them up to a git repository) from the book before class. In addition, students will submit any questions from the chapter 24 hours before the class in which the readings are due, so that the instructor can review common issues during the first part of class.

**App Prototype 1** - March 4th, 2015 - 10%

Make a non-functional prototype in order to test out one of your app ideas and get feedback from classmates and potential users. The medium you build in is up to you, but consider using something like Keynote or Powerpoint to be able to quickly work through possible interfaces. You should have at least three different screens of your app represented, but more may be required to describe how it would work.

**App Prototype 2** - March 25th, 2015 - 10%

In teams of up to 2 people, pick one of your initial app prototypes (or choose a new idea) and make a new prototype to explore the idea further. This prototype should have all of your screens represented (4-5 screens or as agreed to with the instructor). In addition, this prototype should allow users to tap through most of the flows of the app.

**Final Project** - May 6th, 2015 - 60%

In teams of up to 2 people, build an app based on one of the prototypes you have already done for the class. The app should consist of at least 3 custom views and 3 custom view controllers, unless previously cleared with the instructor. For people working in groups, at least 30% of the custom code should be written by each student. 50% of the project grade will be given based on the correct use of the technical skills learned in the class, and 50% will be given to design execution (whether the app is valuable and usable for target users, either as a utility or as art). Making a game is discouraged, though possible if cleared with the instructor. All members of a group will share the same grade.

**Class Participation** - 20%

Half the class participation grade (10%) will be based on in class discussion and the completion of smaller in class assignments. The other half will be based on keeping up with the readings.

### Schedule 


##### 1/28	Course Introduction - Getting Xcode & git setup

##### 2/4 	Basics of Objective-C

* 1 - A Simple iOS Application
* 2 - Objective-C

##### 2/11 	Views

* 3 - Managing Memory with ARC
* 4 - Views and the View Hierarchy

##### 2/18 	View Controllers
* 5 - Views: Redrawing and UIScrollView
* 6 - View Controllers
* **Assignment Due: 2 App Ideas**

##### 2/25 	UITableView
* 7 - Delegation and Text Input
* 8 - UITableView and UITableViewController

##### 3/4 	UINavigation Controller
* 9 - Editing UITableView
* 10 - UINavigationController
* **Assignment Due: App Prototype 1**

##### 3/11 	Touch Events
* 11 - Camera
* 12 - Touch Events and UIResponder

##### 3/18 	Auto Layout
* 13 - UIGestureRecognizer and UIMenuController
* 14 - Debugging Tools
* 15 - Introduction to Auto Layout

##### 3/25 	Modal View Controllers
* 16 - Auto Layout: Programmatic Constraints
* 17 - Autorotation, Popover Controllers, and Modal View Controllers
* **Assignment Due: App Prototype 2**

##### 4/1 	UITableViewCell
* 18 - Saving, Loading, and Application States
* 19 - Subclassing UITableViewCell

##### 4/8 	Saving Data, Part 1
* 21 - Web Services and UIWebView
* 23 - Core Data

##### 4/15	Saving Data, Part 2
* 24 - State Restoration
* 26 - NSUserDefaults

##### 4/22 	UIStoryboard
* 27 - Controlling Animations
* 28 - UIStoryboard

##### 4/29 	Localization
* 25 - Localization


##### 5/6	Final Projects Due - Presentations in Class



Moses Center Statement of Disability

If you are student with a disability who is requesting accommodations, please contact New York University’s Moses Center for Students with Disabilities at 212-998-4980 or mosescsd@nyu.edu.  You must be registered with CSD to receive accommodations.  Information about the Moses Center can be found at www.nyu.edu/csd. The Moses Center is located at 726 Broadway on the 2nd floor.

Commit message:

Added weekly schedule to re-iterate the weekly requirements of the course

syllabus.md, after:

# DM-GY 9103 Mobile Apps

![NYU](http://ws2.polishedsolid.com/de/nyu_soe_logo.png)
#### Integrated Digital Media • Technology, Culture & Society Department


    Chris Ricca, chris.ricca@nyu.edu • Spring 2015 • Wednesdays 6:30-9:20PM • 2MTC MAGNET 817 • 3 credit hrs
    Office hours by appointment • Office: 2MTC MAGNET 875


### Course Pre-requisites
Students should have experience with a programming language beyond a basic level.

### Course Description
This course covers the technical and design fundamentals of building native mobile apps for iOS (iPod, iPhone or iPad) using the Objective-C programming language and tools such as git, XCode, and Interface Builder.

### Course Objectives
At a graduate level, students will:

* prototype an idea for an app to determine its value, usability, and feasibility
* write and read the Objective-C programming language
* build a native iOS app using UIKit and appropriate architectural patterns
* use Auto Layout to make interfaces that adapt to different device screen sizes
* read iOS documentation to discover and use more advanced features of the framework

### Program Learning Objectives
At a graduate level, students will:

* develop conceptual thinking skills to generate ideas and content in order to solve problems or create opportunities.
* develop technical skills to realize their ideas.
* develop critical thinking skills that will allow them to analyze and position their work within cultural, historic, aesthetic, economic, and technological contexts.
gain knowledge of professional practices and organizations by developing their verbal, visual, and written communication for documentation and presentation, exhibition and promotion, networking, and career preparation.
* develop collaboration skills to actively and effectively work in a team or group.

### Course Structure
Students in this course will engage in two main tracks of study: learning technical skills via weekly exercises, and a prototype driven app development project.

To learn the technical skills required to make an iOS app, students will be following the iOS textbook from The Big Nerd Ranch. Students will read and code along with 2 chapters / week as well as watch videos to help support the material. Class time will be reserved for getting answers to questions brought up in the readings, as well as completing select exercises from the book with access to help from fellow students and the instructor.

The app development project will start with a series of idea generation exercises, prototypes, critiques, and in class workshops. In general, students will be encouraged to validate their ideas in a lightweight way before committing to building them in code for the final project. During the last half of the course, students will be working in teams of two to fully develop their apps in code.

### Readings

The **required** text for the course is:

```
Keur, Christian, Aaron Hillegass, and Joe Conway.
iOS Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide. 4th ed.
Atlanta, GA: Big Nerd Ranch, 2014.
```

Available on [amazon](http://www.amazon.com/iOS-Programming-Ranch-Guide-Guides-ebook/dp/B00IG8TGZ8/) (the kindle version on the OSX kindle app works well) and a copy is also at Dibner on course reserve

---

An **optional** text is:

```
Hillegass, Aaron.
Objective-C Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide.
Atlanta, GA: Big Nerd Ranch, 2011.
```

Available on [amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Objective-C-Programming-Ranch-Guide-Guides-ebook/dp/B00GSRITM0/) if you choose to use it, and a copy is also at Dibner on course reserve

---
Useful resources:

* [https://developer.apple.com](https://developer.apple.com)
* [http://www.objc.io](http://www.objc.io)
* [http://asciiwwdc.com](http://asciiwwdc.com)
* [http://ios.devtools.me](http://ios.devtools.me)
* [http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~blynn/gitmagic/index.html](http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~blynn/gitmagic/index.html)


### Course requirements
Students will be expected to complete the reading and the complete the accompanying coding examples (and push them up to a git repository) from the book before class. In addition, students will submit any questions from the chapter 24 hours before the class in which the readings are due, so that the instructor can review common issues during the first part of class.

**App Prototype 1** - March 4th, 2015 - 10%

Make a non-functional prototype in order to test out one of your app ideas and get feedback from classmates and potential users. The medium you build in is up to you, but consider using something like Keynote or Powerpoint to be able to quickly work through possible interfaces. You should have at least three different screens of your app represented, but more may be required to describe how it would work.

**App Prototype 2** - March 25th, 2015 - 10%

In teams of up to 2 people, pick one of your initial app prototypes (or choose a new idea) and make a new prototype to explore the idea further. This prototype should have all of your screens represented (4-5 screens or as agreed to with the instructor). In addition, this prototype should allow users to tap through most of the flows of the app.

**Final Project** - May 6th, 2015 - 60%

In teams of up to 2 people, build an app based on one of the prototypes you have already done for the class. The app should consist of at least 3 custom views and 3 custom view controllers, unless previously cleared with the instructor. For people working in groups, at least 30% of the custom code should be written by each student. 50% of the project grade will be given based on the correct use of the technical skills learned in the class, and 50% will be given to design execution (whether the app is valuable and usable for target users, either as a utility or as art). Making a game is discouraged, though possible if cleared with the instructor. All members of a group will share the same grade.

**Class Participation** - 20%

Half the class participation grade (10%) will be based on in class discussion and the completion of smaller in class assignments. The other half will be based on keeping up with the readings.


### Weekly Requirements

**Tuesdays by 6:30pm**

* Email questions from readings to <chris.ricca@nyu.edu> (or email saying you don't have any questions).

**Wednesdays by 6:30pm** (class)

* Reading & text book work for the week's chapter (on 2/11, example exercises for chapters 3 and 4) excluding the challenges. Feel free to complete challenges if you are able, but they will not be due until the next week.

* Challenges for the previous week's challenges (this is to give you an opportunity to ask questions about fundamental concepts in class on particularly difficult challenges)



### Schedule


##### 1/28	Course Introduction - Getting Xcode & git setup

##### 2/4 	Basics of Objective-C

* 1 - A Simple iOS Application
* 2 - Objective-C

##### 2/11 	Views

* 3 - Managing Memory with ARC
* 4 - Views and the View Hierarchy

##### 2/18 	View Controllers
* 5 - Views: Redrawing and UIScrollView
* 6 - View Controllers
* **Assignment Due: 2 App Ideas**

##### 2/25 	UITableView
* 7 - Delegation and Text Input
* 8 - UITableView and UITableViewController

##### 3/4 	UINavigation Controller
* 9 - Editing UITableView
* 10 - UINavigationController
* **Assignment Due: App Prototype 1**

##### 3/11 	Touch Events
* 11 - Camera
* 12 - Touch Events and UIResponder

##### 3/18 	Auto Layout
* 13 - UIGestureRecognizer and UIMenuController
* 14 - Debugging Tools
* 15 - Introduction to Auto Layout

##### 3/25 	Modal View Controllers
* 16 - Auto Layout: Programmatic Constraints
* 17 - Autorotation, Popover Controllers, and Modal View Controllers
* **Assignment Due: App Prototype 2**

##### 4/1 	UITableViewCell
* 18 - Saving, Loading, and Application States
* 19 - Subclassing UITableViewCell

##### 4/8 	Saving Data, Part 1
* 21 - Web Services and UIWebView
* 23 - Core Data

##### 4/15	Saving Data, Part 2
* 24 - State Restoration
* 26 - NSUserDefaults

##### 4/22 	UIStoryboard
* 27 - Controlling Animations
* 28 - UIStoryboard

##### 4/29 	Localization
* 25 - Localization


##### 5/6	Final Projects Due - Presentations in Class


Moses Center Statement of Disability

If you are student with a disability who is requesting accommodations, please contact New York University’s Moses Center for Students with Disabilities at 212-998-4980 or mosescsd@nyu.edu.  You must be registered with CSD to receive accommodations.  Information about the Moses Center can be found at www.nyu.edu/csd. The Moses Center is located at 726 Broadway on the 2nd floor.
